README.md, before:

# Wanderlust - Your Ultimate Travel Blog 🌍✈️

WanderLust is a simple MERN travel blog website ✈ This project is aimed to help people to contribute in open source, upskill in react and also master git.

![Preview Image](https://github.com/krishnaacharyaa/wanderlust/assets/116620586/17ba9da6-225f-481d-87c0-5d5a010a9538)

## [Figma Design File](https://www.figma.com/file/zqNcWGGKBo5Q2TwwVgR6G5/WanderLust--A-Travel-Blog-App?type=design&node-id=0%3A1&mode=design&t=c4oCG8N1Fjf7pxTt-1)
## [Discord Channel](https://discord.gg/FEKasAdCrG)

## 🎯 Goal of this project

At its core, this project embodies two important aims:

1. **Start Your Open Source Journey**: It's aimed to kickstart your open-source journey. Here, you'll learn the basics of Git and get a solid grip on the MERN stack and I strongly believe that learning and building should go hand in hand.
2. **React Mastery**: Once you've got the basics down, a whole new adventure begins of mastering React. This project covers everything, from simple form validation to advanced performance enhancements. And I've planned much more cool stuff to add in the near future if the project hits more number of contributors.

_I'd love for you to make the most of this project - it's all about learning, helping, and growing in the open-source world._

## Setting up the project locally

### Setting up the Backend

1. **Fork and Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/{your-username}/wanderlust.git
   ```

2. **Navigate to the Backend Directory**

   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

3. **Install Required Dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm i
   ```

4. **Set up your MongoDB Database**

   - Open MongoDB Compass and connect MongoDB locally at `mongodb://localhost:27017`.

5. **Import sample data**

   > To populate the database with sample posts, you can copy the content from the `backend/data/sample_posts.json` file and insert it as a document in the `wanderlust/posts` collection in your local MongoDB database using either MongoDB Compass or `mongoimport`.

   ```bash
   mongoimport --db wanderlust --collection posts --file ./data/sample_posts.json --jsonArray
   ```

6. **Configure Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   cp .env.sample .env
   ```

7. **Start the Backend Server**

   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

   > You should see the following on your terminal output on successful setup.
   >
   > ```bash
   > [BACKEND] Server is running on port 5000
   > [BACKEND] Database connected: mongodb://127.0.0.1/wanderlust
   > ```

### Setting up the Frontend

1. **Open a New Terminal**

   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```

2. **Install Dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm i
   ```

3. **Configure Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   cp .env.sample .env.local
   ```

4. **Launch the Development Server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## 🌟 Ready to Contribute?

Kindly go through [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/krishnaacharyaa/wanderlust/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) to understand everything from setup to contributing guidelines.

## 💖 Show Your Support

If you find this project interesting and inspiring, please consider showing your support by starring it on GitHub! Your star goes a long way in helping me reach more developers and encourages me to keep enhancing the project.

🚀 Feel free to get in touch with me for any further queries or support, happy to help :)

Commit message:

updated read me with node installation

README.md, after:

# Wanderlust - Your Ultimate Travel Blog 🌍✈️

WanderLust is a simple MERN travel blog website ✈ This project is aimed to help people to contribute in open source, upskill in react and also master git.

![Preview Image](https://github.com/krishnaacharyaa/wanderlust/assets/116620586/17ba9da6-225f-481d-87c0-5d5a010a9538)

## [Figma Design File](https://www.figma.com/file/zqNcWGGKBo5Q2TwwVgR6G5/WanderLust--A-Travel-Blog-App?type=design&node-id=0%3A1&mode=design&t=c4oCG8N1Fjf7pxTt-1)
## [Discord Channel](https://discord.gg/FEKasAdCrG)

## 🎯 Goal of this project

At its core, this project embodies two important aims:

1. **Start Your Open Source Journey**: It's aimed to kickstart your open-source journey. Here, you'll learn the basics of Git and get a solid grip on the MERN stack and I strongly believe that learning and building should go hand in hand.
2. **React Mastery**: Once you've got the basics down, a whole new adventure begins of mastering React. This project covers everything, from simple form validation to advanced performance enhancements. And I've planned much more cool stuff to add in the near future if the project hits more number of contributors.

_I'd love for you to make the most of this project - it's all about learning, helping, and growing in the open-source world._

## Setting up the project locally

### Setting up the Backend

1. **Fork and Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/{your-username}/wanderlust.git
   ```

2. **Navigate to the Backend Directory**

   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

3. **Install Required Dependencies**

   ```bash

# installs fnm (Fast Node Manager)
curl -fsSL https://fnm.vercel.app/install | bash

# download and install Node.js
fnm use --install-if-missing 22

# verifies the right Node.js version is in the environment
node -v # should print `v22.2.0`

# verifies the right NPM version is in the environment
npm -v # should print `10.7.0`

npm i
   ```

4. **Set up your MongoDB Database**

   - Open MongoDB Compass and connect MongoDB locally at `mongodb://localhost:27017`.

5. **Import sample data**

   > To populate the database with sample posts, you can copy the content from the `backend/data/sample_posts.json` file and insert it as a document in the `wanderlust/posts` collection in your local MongoDB database using either MongoDB Compass or `mongoimport`.

   ```bash
   mongoimport --db wanderlust --collection posts --file ./data/sample_posts.json --jsonArray
   ```

6. **Configure Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   cp .env.sample .env
   ```

7. **Start the Backend Server**

   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

   > You should see the following on your terminal output on successful setup.
   >
   > ```bash
   > [BACKEND] Server is running on port 5000
   > [BACKEND] Database connected: mongodb://127.0.0.1/wanderlust
   > ```

### Setting up the Frontend

1. **Open a New Terminal**

   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```

2. **Install Dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm i
   ```

3. **Configure Environment Variables**

   ```bash
   cp .env.sample .env.local
   ```

4. **Launch the Development Server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## 🌟 Ready to Contribute?

Kindly go through [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/krishnaacharyaa/wanderlust/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) to understand everything from setup to contributing guidelines.

## 💖 Show Your Support

If you find this project interesting and inspiring, please consider showing your support by starring it on GitHub! Your star goes a long way in helping me reach more developers and encourages me to keep enhancing the project.

🚀 Feel free to get in touch with me for any further queries or support, happy to help :)
